website/content/docs/connect/config-entries/mesh.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Mesh - Configuration Entry Reference
description: >-
  The mesh configuration entry kind defines global default settings like TLS version requirements for proxies inside the service mesh. Use the reference guide to learn about `""mesh""` config entry parameters and how to control communication with services outside of the mesh.
---

# Mesh Configuration Entry

-> **v1.10.0+:** This configuration entry is supported in Consul versions 1.10.0+.

The `mesh` configuration entry allows you to define a global default configuration that applies to all service mesh proxies.
Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.

## Sample Configuration Entries

### Mesh-wide TLS Min Version

Enforce that service mesh mTLS traffic uses TLS v1.2 or newer.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TLS {
  Incoming {
    TLSMinVersion = "TLSv1_2"
  }
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  tls:
    incoming:
      tlsMinVersion: TLSv1_2
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TLS": {
    "Incoming": {
      "TLSMinVersion": "TLSv1_2"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"

TLS {
  Incoming {
    TLSMinVersion = "TLSv1_2"
  }
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  tls:
    incoming:
      tlsMinVersion: TLSv1_2
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TLS": {
    "Incoming": {
      "TLSMinVersion": "TLSv1_2"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.

### Mesh Destinations Only

Only allow transparent proxies to dial addresses in the mesh.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"

TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.

###  Peer Through Mesh Gateways

Set the `PeerThroughMeshGateways` parameter to `true` to route peering control plane traffic through mesh gateways.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
Peering {
  PeerThroughMeshGateways = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  peering:
    peerThroughMeshGateways: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Peering": {
    "PeerThroughMeshGateways": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

You can only set the `PeerThroughMeshGateways` attribute on `mesh` configuration entries in the `default` partition.
The `default` partition owns the traffic routed through the mesh gateway control plane to Consul servers.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"

Peering {
  PeerThroughMeshGateways = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  peering:
    peerThroughMeshGateways: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Peering": {
    "PeerThroughMeshGateways": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.


## Available Fields

<ConfigEntryReference
  keys={[
    {
      name: 'apiVersion',
      description: 'Must be set to `consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1`',
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Kind',
      description: {
        hcl: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        yaml: 'Must be set to `Mesh`',
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'Namespace',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Must be set to `default`. The configuration will apply to all namespaces.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Partition',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Specifies the name of the admin partition in which the configuration entry applies. Refer to the [Admin Partitions documentation](/consul/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for additional information.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Meta',
      type: 'map<string|string>: nil',
      description:
        'Specifies arbitrary KV metadata pairs. Added in Consul 1.8.4.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'metadata',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'name',
          description: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        },
        {
          name: 'namespace',
          enterprise: true,
          description:
            'Must be set to `default`. If running Consul Open Source, the namespace is ignored (see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul OSS](/consul/docs/k8s/crds#consul-oss)). If running Consul Enterprise see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul Enterprise](/consul/docs/k8s/crds#consul-enterprise) for additional information.',
        },
      ],
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'TransparentProxy',
      type: 'TransparentProxyConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to proxies in `transparent` [mode](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#mode). Added in v1.10.0.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'MeshDestinationsOnly',
          type: 'bool: false',
          description: `Determines whether sidecar proxies operating in transparent mode can
                        proxy traffic to IP addresses not registered in Consul's mesh. If enabled, traffic will only be proxied
                        to upstream proxies or mesh-native services. If disabled, requests will be proxied as-is to the
                        original destination IP address. Consul will not encrypt the connection.`,
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'TLS',
      type: 'TLSConfig: <optional>',
      description: 'TLS configuration for the service mesh.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'Incoming',
          type: 'TLSDirectionConfig: <optional>',
          description: `TLS configuration for inbound mTLS connections targeting
                        the public listener on \`connect-proxy\` and \`terminating-gateway\`
                        proxy kinds.`,
          children: [
            {
              name: 'TLSMinVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description:
                "Set the default minimum TLS version supported. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy v1.22.0 and newer [will default to TLS 1.2 as a min version](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/19330), while older releases of Envoy default to TLS 1.0.",
            },
            {
              name: 'TLSMaxVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description: {
                hcl:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `TLSMinVersion`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.3 as a max version for incoming connections.",
                yaml:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `tls_min_version`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.3 as a max version for incoming connections.",
              },
            },
            {
              name: 'CipherSuites',
              type: 'array<string>: <optional>',
              description: `Set the default list of TLS cipher suites
                            to support when negotiating connections using
                            TLS 1.2 or earlier. If unspecified, Envoy will use a
                            [default server cipher list](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-transport-sockets-tls-v3-tlsparameters-cipher-suites).
                            The list of supported cipher suites can seen in
                            [\`consul/types/tls.go\`](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/blob/v1.11.2/types/tls.go#L154-L169)
                            and is dependent on underlying support in Envoy. Future
                            releases of Envoy may remove currently-supported but
                            insecure cipher suites, and future releases of Consul
                            may add new supported cipher suites if any are added to
                            Envoy.`,
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          name: 'Outgoing',
          type: 'TLSDirectionConfig: <optional>',
          description: `TLS configuration for outbound mTLS connections dialing upstreams
                        from \`connect-proxy\` and \`ingress-gateway\`
                        proxy kinds.`,
          children: [
            {
              name: 'TLSMinVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description:
                "Set the default minimum TLS version supported. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy v1.22.0 and newer [will default to TLS 1.2 as a min version](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/19330), while older releases of Envoy default to TLS 1.0.",
            },
            {
              name: 'TLSMaxVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description: {
                hcl:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `TLSMinVersion`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.2 as a max version for outgoing connections, but future Envoy releases [may change this to TLS 1.3](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/9300).",
                yaml:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `tls_min_version`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.2 as a max version for outgoing connections, but future Envoy releases [may change this to TLS 1.3](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/9300).",
              },
            },
            {
              name: 'CipherSuites',
              type: 'array<string>: <optional>',
              description: `Set the default list of TLS cipher suites
                            to support when negotiating connections using
                            TLS 1.2 or earlier. If unspecified, Envoy will use a
                            [default server cipher list](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-transport-sockets-tls-v3-tlsparameters-cipher-suites).
                            The list of supported cipher suites can seen in
                            [\`consul/types/tls.go\`](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/blob/v1.11.2/types/tls.go#L154-L169)
                            and is dependent on underlying support in Envoy. Future
                            releases of Envoy may remove currently-supported but
                            insecure cipher suites, and future releases of Consul
                            may add new supported cipher suites if any are added to
                            Envoy.`,
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'HTTP',
      type: 'HTTPConfig: <optional>',
      description: 'HTTP configuration for the service mesh.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'SanitizeXForwardedClientCert',
          type: 'bool: <optional>',
          description: `If configured to \`true\`, the \`forward_client_cert_details\` option will be set to \`SANITIZE\`
                        for all Envoy proxies. As a result, Consul will not include the \`x-forwarded-client-cert\` header in the next hop.
                        If set to \`false\` (default), the XFCC header is propagated to upstream applications.`,
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'Peering',
      type: 'PeeringMeshConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to [peering connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering).',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'PeerThroughMeshGateways',
          type: 'bool: <optional>',
          description: `Determines if peering control-plane traffic should be routed through mesh gateways.
                        When enabled, dialing cluster attempt to contact peers through their mesh gateway.
                        Clusters that accept calls advertise the address of their mesh gateways, rather than the address of their Consul servers.`,
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## ACLs

Configuration entries may be protected by [ACLs](/consul/docs/security/acl).

Reading a `mesh` config entry requires no specific privileges.

Creating, updating, or deleting a `mesh` config entry requires
`operator:write`.

Commit message:

Backport of docs: Reference doc updates for permissive mTLS settings into release/1.16.x (#17652)
* backport of commit 1602c996fd1bc6d73f9a2c34d93687700307382a

* backport of commit 132c6ee6c5e119b904d2133cb93722a7ab321634

* backport of commit 5e64b930f55531d4d6668b797b5643b98489d163

* backport of commit 83a7b3fe52adc04835c52ffeb08adbcc3ac23d17

---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Glass <pglass@hashicorp.com>

website/content/docs/connect/config-entries/mesh.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Mesh - Configuration Entry Reference
description: >-
  The mesh configuration entry kind defines global default settings like TLS version requirements for proxies inside the service mesh. Use the reference guide to learn about `""mesh""` config entry parameters and how to control communication with services outside of the mesh.
---

# Mesh Configuration Entry

-> **v1.10.0+:** This configuration entry is supported in Consul versions 1.10.0+.

The `mesh` configuration entry allows you to define a global default configuration that applies to all service mesh proxies.
Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.

## Sample Configuration Entries

### Mesh-wide TLS Min Version

Enforce that service mesh mTLS traffic uses TLS v1.2 or newer.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TLS {
  Incoming {
    TLSMinVersion = "TLSv1_2"
  }
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  tls:
    incoming:
      tlsMinVersion: TLSv1_2
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TLS": {
    "Incoming": {
      "TLSMinVersion": "TLSv1_2"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"

TLS {
  Incoming {
    TLSMinVersion = "TLSv1_2"
  }
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  tls:
    incoming:
      tlsMinVersion: TLSv1_2
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TLS": {
    "Incoming": {
      "TLSMinVersion": "TLSv1_2"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.

### Mesh Destinations Only

Only allow transparent proxies to dial addresses in the mesh.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"

TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.

###  Peer Through Mesh Gateways

Set the `PeerThroughMeshGateways` parameter to `true` to route peering control plane traffic through mesh gateways.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
Peering {
  PeerThroughMeshGateways = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  peering:
    peerThroughMeshGateways: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Peering": {
    "PeerThroughMeshGateways": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

You can only set the `PeerThroughMeshGateways` attribute on `mesh` configuration entries in the `default` partition.
The `default` partition owns the traffic routed through the mesh gateway control plane to Consul servers.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"

Peering {
  PeerThroughMeshGateways = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  peering:
    peerThroughMeshGateways: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Peering": {
    "PeerThroughMeshGateways": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kubernetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/consul/docs/k8s/crds), which can only be scoped to their own partition.


## Available Fields

<ConfigEntryReference
  keys={[
    {
      name: 'apiVersion',
      description: 'Must be set to `consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1`',
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Kind',
      description: {
        hcl: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        yaml: 'Must be set to `Mesh`',
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'Namespace',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Must be set to `default`. The configuration will apply to all namespaces.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Partition',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Specifies the name of the admin partition in which the configuration entry applies. Refer to the [Admin Partitions documentation](/consul/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for additional information.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Meta',
      type: 'map<string|string>: nil',
      description:
        'Specifies arbitrary KV metadata pairs. Added in Consul 1.8.4.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'metadata',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'name',
          description: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        },
        {
          name: 'namespace',
          enterprise: true,
          description:
            'Must be set to `default`. If running Consul Open Source, the namespace is ignored (see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul OSS](/consul/docs/k8s/crds#consul-oss)). If running Consul Enterprise see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul Enterprise](/consul/docs/k8s/crds#consul-enterprise) for additional information.',
        },
      ],
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'TransparentProxy',
      type: 'TransparentProxyConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to proxies in `transparent` [mode](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#mode). Added in v1.10.0.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'MeshDestinationsOnly',
          type: 'bool: false',
          description: `Determines whether sidecar proxies operating in transparent mode can
                        proxy traffic to IP addresses not registered in Consul's mesh. If enabled, traffic will only be proxied
                        to upstream proxies or mesh-native services. If disabled, requests will be proxied as-is to the
                        original destination IP address. Consul will not encrypt the connection.`,
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'AllowEnablingPermissiveMutualTLS',
      type: 'bool: false',
      description:
        'Controls whether `MutualTLSMode=permissive` can be set in the `proxy-defaults` and `service-defaults` configuration entries. '
    },
    {
      name: 'TLS',
      type: 'TLSConfig: <optional>',
      description: 'TLS configuration for the service mesh.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'Incoming',
          type: 'TLSDirectionConfig: <optional>',
          description: `TLS configuration for inbound mTLS connections targeting
                        the public listener on \`connect-proxy\` and \`terminating-gateway\`
                        proxy kinds.`,
          children: [
            {
              name: 'TLSMinVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description:
                "Set the default minimum TLS version supported. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy v1.22.0 and newer [will default to TLS 1.2 as a min version](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/19330), while older releases of Envoy default to TLS 1.0.",
            },
            {
              name: 'TLSMaxVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description: {
                hcl:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `TLSMinVersion`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.3 as a max version for incoming connections.",
                yaml:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `tls_min_version`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.3 as a max version for incoming connections.",
              },
            },
            {
              name: 'CipherSuites',
              type: 'array<string>: <optional>',
              description: `Set the default list of TLS cipher suites
                            to support when negotiating connections using
                            TLS 1.2 or earlier. If unspecified, Envoy will use a
                            [default server cipher list](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-transport-sockets-tls-v3-tlsparameters-cipher-suites).
                            The list of supported cipher suites can seen in
                            [\`consul/types/tls.go\`](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/blob/v1.11.2/types/tls.go#L154-L169)
                            and is dependent on underlying support in Envoy. Future
                            releases of Envoy may remove currently-supported but
                            insecure cipher suites, and future releases of Consul
                            may add new supported cipher suites if any are added to
                            Envoy.`,
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          name: 'Outgoing',
          type: 'TLSDirectionConfig: <optional>',
          description: `TLS configuration for outbound mTLS connections dialing upstreams
                        from \`connect-proxy\` and \`ingress-gateway\`
                        proxy kinds.`,
          children: [
            {
              name: 'TLSMinVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description:
                "Set the default minimum TLS version supported. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy v1.22.0 and newer [will default to TLS 1.2 as a min version](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/19330), while older releases of Envoy default to TLS 1.0.",
            },
            {
              name: 'TLSMaxVersion',
              type: 'string: ""',
              description: {
                hcl:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `TLSMinVersion`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.2 as a max version for outgoing connections, but future Envoy releases [may change this to TLS 1.3](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/9300).",
                yaml:
                  "Set the default maximum TLS version supported. Must be greater than or equal to `tls_min_version`. One of `TLS_AUTO`, `TLSv1_0`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`, or `TLSv1_3`. If unspecified, Envoy will default to TLS 1.2 as a max version for outgoing connections, but future Envoy releases [may change this to TLS 1.3](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/9300).",
              },
            },
            {
              name: 'CipherSuites',
              type: 'array<string>: <optional>',
              description: `Set the default list of TLS cipher suites
                            to support when negotiating connections using
                            TLS 1.2 or earlier. If unspecified, Envoy will use a
                            [default server cipher list](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-transport-sockets-tls-v3-tlsparameters-cipher-suites).
                            The list of supported cipher suites can seen in
                            [\`consul/types/tls.go\`](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/blob/v1.11.2/types/tls.go#L154-L169)
                            and is dependent on underlying support in Envoy. Future
                            releases of Envoy may remove currently-supported but
                            insecure cipher suites, and future releases of Consul
                            may add new supported cipher suites if any are added to
                            Envoy.`,
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'HTTP',
      type: 'HTTPConfig: <optional>',
      description: 'HTTP configuration for the service mesh.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'SanitizeXForwardedClientCert',
          type: 'bool: <optional>',
          description: `If configured to \`true\`, the \`forward_client_cert_details\` option will be set to \`SANITIZE\`
                        for all Envoy proxies. As a result, Consul will not include the \`x-forwarded-client-cert\` header in the next hop.
                        If set to \`false\` (default), the XFCC header is propagated to upstream applications.`,
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      name: 'Peering',
      type: 'PeeringMeshConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to [peering connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering).',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'PeerThroughMeshGateways',
          type: 'bool: <optional>',
          description: `Determines if peering control-plane traffic should be routed through mesh gateways.
                        When enabled, dialing cluster attempt to contact peers through their mesh gateway.
                        Clusters that accept calls advertise the address of their mesh gateways, rather than the address of their Consul servers.`,
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## ACLs

Configuration entries may be protected by [ACLs](/consul/docs/security/acl).

Reading a `mesh` config entry requires no specific privileges.

Creating, updating, or deleting a `mesh` config entry requires
`operator:write`.
