website/content/docs/connect/native/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Service Mesh Native App Integration - Overview
description: >-
  When using sidecar proxies is not possible, applications can natively integrate with Consul service mesh, but have reduced access to service mesh features. Learn how "mesh-native" or "connect-native" apps use mTLS to authenticate with Consul and how to add integrations to service registrations.
---

# Service Mesh Native App Integration Overview

~> **Note:** The Native App Integration does not support many of the Consul's service
mesh features, and is not under active development.
The [Envoy proxy](/consul/docs/connect/proxies/envoy) should be used for most production
environments.

Applications can natively integrate with Consul's service mesh API to support accepting
and establishing connections to other mesh services without the overhead of a
[proxy sidecar](/consul/docs/connect/proxies). This option is especially useful
for applications that may be experiencing performance issues with the proxy
sidecar deployment. This page will cover the high-level overview of
integration, registering the service, etc. For language-specific examples, see
the sidebar navigation to the left. It is also required if your service uses
relies on a dynamic set of upstream services.

Service mesh traffic is just basic mutual TLS. This means that almost any application
can easily integrate with Consul service mesh. There is no custom protocol in use;
any language that supports TLS can accept and establish mesh-based
connections.

We currently provide an easy-to-use [Go integration](/consul/docs/connect/native/go)
to assist with the getting the proper certificates, verifying connections,
etc. We plan to add helper libraries for other languages in the future.
However, without library support, it is still possible for any major language
to integrate with Consul service mesh.

The noun _connect_ is used throughout this documentation to refer to the connect
subsystem that provides Consul's service mesh capabilities.

## Overview

The primary work involved in natively integrating with service mesh is
[acquiring the proper TLS certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate),
[verifying TLS certificates](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots),
and [authorizing inbound connections or requests](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#list-matching-intentions).

All of this is done using the Consul HTTP APIs linked above.

An overview of the sequence is shown below. The diagram and the following
details may seem complex, but this is a _regular mutual TLS connection_ with
an API call to verify the incoming client certificate.

![Native Integration Overview](/img/connect-native-overview.png)

-> **Note:** This diagram depicts the simpler networking layer 4 (e.g. TCP) [integration
mechanism](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#authorize).

Details on the steps are below:

- **Service discovery** - This is normal service discovery using Consul,
  a static IP, or any other mechanism. If you're using Consul DNS, the
  [`<service>.connect`](/consul/docs/services/discovery/dns-static-lookups#service-mesh-enabled-service-lookups)
  syntax to find mesh-capable endpoints for a service. After service
  discovery, choose one address from the list of **service addresses**.

- **Mutual TLS** - As a client, connect to the discovered service address
  over normal TLS. As part of the TLS connection, provide the
  [service certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate)
  as the client certificate. Verify the remote certificate against the
  [public CA roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots).
  As a client, if the connection is established then you've established
  a mesh-based connection and there are no further steps!

- **Authorization** - As a server accepting connections, verify the client
  certificate against the [public CA
  roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots). After verifying
  the certificate, parse some basic fields from it and use those to determine
  if the connection should be allowed. How this is done is dependent on
  the level of integration desired:

  - **Simple integration (TCP-only)** - Call the [authorizing
    API](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#authorize) against the local agent. If this returns
    successfully, complete the TLS handshake and establish the connection. If
    authorization fails, close the connection.

    -> **NOTE:** This API call is expected to be called in the connection path,
    so if the local Consul agent is down or unresponsive it will effect the
    success rate of new connections. The agent uses locally cached data to
    authorize the connection and typically responds in microseconds. Therefore,
    the impact to the TLS handshake is typically microseconds.

  - **Complete integration** - Like how the calls to acquire the leaf
    certificate and CA roots are expected to be done out of band and reused, so
    should the [intention match
    API](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#list-matching-intentions). With all of the
    relevant intentions cached for the destination, all enforcement operations
    can be done entirely by the service without calling any Consul APIs in the
    connection or request path. If the service is networking layer 7 (e.g.
    HTTP) aware it can safely enforce intentions per _request_ instead of the
    coarser per _connection_ model.

## Update certificates and certificate roots

The leaf certificate and CA roots can be updated at any time and the
natively integrated application must react to this relatively quickly
so that new connections are not disrupted. This can be done through
Consul blocking queries (HTTP long polling) or through periodic polling.

The API calls for
[acquiring a service mesh TLS certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate)
and [reading service mesh CA roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots)
both support
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking). By using blocking
queries, an application can efficiently wait for an updated value. For example,
the leaf certificate API will block until the certificate is near expiration
or the signing certificates have changed and will issue and return a new
certificate.

In some languages, using blocking queries may not be simple. In that case,
we still recommend using the blocking query parameters but with a very short
`timeout` value set. Doing this is documented with
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking). The low timeout will
ensure the API responds quickly. We recommend that applications poll the
certificate endpoints frequently, such as multiple times per minute.

The overhead for the blocking queries (long or periodic polling) is minimal.
The API calls are to the local agent and the local agent uses locally
cached data multiplexed over a single TCP connection to the Consul leader.
Even if a single machine has 1,000 mesh-enabled services all blocking
on certificate updates, this translates to only one TCP connection to the
Consul server.

Some language libraries such as the
[Go library](/consul/docs/connect/native/go) automatically handle updating
and locally caching the certificates.

## Service registration

Mesh-native applications must tell Consul that they support service mesh
natively. This enables the service to be returned as part of service
discovery for service mesh-capable services used by other mesh-native applications
and client [proxies](/consul/docs/connect/proxies).

You can enable native service mesh support directly in the [service definition](/consul/docs/services/configuration/services-configuration-reference#connect) by configuring the `connect` block. In the following example, the `redis` service is configured to support service mesh natively:

```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "redis",
    "port": 8000,
    "connect": {
      "native": true
    }
  }
}
```

Services that support service mesh natively are still returned through the standard
service discovery mechanisms in addition to the mesh-only service discovery
mechanisms.

Commit message:

Backport of docs: Deprecations for connect-native SDK and specific connect native APIs into release/1.16.x (#17941)
* backport of commit a8658bf7c88722c0b88481637c213ce838eb3c7c

* backport of commit 966673b5fe20854f815211fe97cfff30056a002d

* backport of commit 7cea575b3a5c28f014fb35c42f46079ccbeaeef0

* backport of commit 17e57a3abe52c19d323c4159b1521788298e8216

* backport of commit 86a7dc34657c4434cb89077fff95217744e596e5

* backport of commit 7f541fffaabb377de97e13b20e8052b9573643df

* backport of commit 4e46d282ff8f24418321e32924c466762dd3f459

* backport of commit 72d7b61634ffc539f4c5a70de6c648a51a74c9f4

* backport of commit 2b6169f7cb3bd374ce0a378fc174268790dd1d4b

* backport of commit b94a833ec952979e9fc7d6518ce30897b3477323

* backport of commit 74e0ec2a05ead2da243086dedab606ff16185afe

* backport of commit be0167b4920f2406f53f326780fff2f7633734d7

* backport of commit a92a3088b4d5431fc6668c1859cd46301e44af8e

* backport of commit 4b02d312d718ac9ea265d8d39463a7625e659c51

* backport of commit f131207d42ce1684a49e18c4096def2fa6d68a82

* backport of commit 3f0be37f49b0b006e5d9ecdba8e9a4af8c933230

* backport of commit 29ed7aaf6f7e080e41e896111b9f25b95af880a7

* backport of commit 8ae546707beaf3a52c28f2e5d8a9d85b965ee93c

* backport of commit 8ed74fcf442dd8cf5e9abb8317d106564c47cfd1

* backport of commit 36537bafb6962d2f966da754a19cbc6a23ef2535

* backport of commit ef7599d7789a216e688a4663538b2e9d06f82c07

---------

Co-authored-by: David Yu <dyu@hashicorp.com>

website/content/docs/connect/native/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Service Mesh Native App Integration - Overview
description: >-
  When using sidecar proxies is not possible, applications can natively integrate with Consul service mesh, but have reduced access to service mesh features. Learn how "mesh-native" or "connect-native" apps use mTLS to authenticate with Consul and how to add integrations to service registrations.
---

# Service Mesh Native App Integration Overview

<Note>

The Connect Native Golang SDK and `v1/agent/connect/authorize`, `v1/agent/connect/ca/leaf`, 
and `v1/agent/connect/ca/roots` APIs are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Although Connect Native 
will still operate as designed, we do not recommend leveraging this feature because it is deprecated and will be removed 
removed when the long term replacement to native application integration (such as a proxyless gRPC service mesh integration) is delivered. Refer to [GH-10339](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/issues/10339) for additional information and to track progress toward one potential solution that is tracked as replacement functionality.

The Native App Integration does not support many of the Consul's service mesh features, and is not under active development.
The [Envoy proxy](/consul/docs/connect/proxies/envoy) should be used for most production environments. 

</Note>

Applications can natively integrate with Consul's service mesh API to support accepting
and establishing connections to other mesh services without the overhead of a
[proxy sidecar](/consul/docs/connect/proxies). This option is especially useful
for applications that may be experiencing performance issues with the proxy
sidecar deployment. This page will cover the high-level overview of
integration, registering the service, etc. For language-specific examples, see
the sidebar navigation to the left. It is also required if your service uses
relies on a dynamic set of upstream services.

Service mesh traffic is just basic mutual TLS. This means that almost any application
can easily integrate with Consul service mesh. There is no custom protocol in use;
any language that supports TLS can accept and establish mesh-based
connections.

We currently provide an easy-to-use [Go integration](/consul/docs/connect/native/go)
to assist with the getting the proper certificates, verifying connections,
etc. We plan to add helper libraries for other languages in the future.
However, without library support, it is still possible for any major language
to integrate with Consul service mesh.

The noun _connect_ is used throughout this documentation to refer to the connect
subsystem that provides Consul's service mesh capabilities.

## Overview

The primary work involved in natively integrating with service mesh is
[acquiring the proper TLS certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate),
[verifying TLS certificates](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots),
and [authorizing inbound connections or requests](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#list-matching-intentions).

All of this is done using the Consul HTTP APIs linked above.

An overview of the sequence is shown below. The diagram and the following
details may seem complex, but this is a _regular mutual TLS connection_ with
an API call to verify the incoming client certificate.

![Native Integration Overview](/img/connect-native-overview.png)

-> **Note:** This diagram depicts the simpler networking layer 4 (e.g. TCP) [integration
mechanism](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#authorize).

Details on the steps are below:

- **Service discovery** - This is normal service discovery using Consul,
  a static IP, or any other mechanism. If you're using Consul DNS, the
  [`<service>.connect`](/consul/docs/services/discovery/dns-static-lookups#service-mesh-enabled-service-lookups)
  syntax to find mesh-capable endpoints for a service. After service
  discovery, choose one address from the list of **service addresses**.

- **Mutual TLS** - As a client, connect to the discovered service address
  over normal TLS. As part of the TLS connection, provide the
  [service certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate)
  as the client certificate. Verify the remote certificate against the
  [public CA roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots).
  As a client, if the connection is established then you've established
  a mesh-based connection and there are no further steps!

- **Authorization** - As a server accepting connections, verify the client
  certificate against the [public CA
  roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots). After verifying
  the certificate, parse some basic fields from it and use those to determine
  if the connection should be allowed. How this is done is dependent on
  the level of integration desired:

  - **Simple integration (TCP-only)** - Call the [authorizing
    API](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#authorize) against the local agent. If this returns
    successfully, complete the TLS handshake and establish the connection. If
    authorization fails, close the connection.

    -> **NOTE:** This API call is expected to be called in the connection path,
    so if the local Consul agent is down or unresponsive it will effect the
    success rate of new connections. The agent uses locally cached data to
    authorize the connection and typically responds in microseconds. Therefore,
    the impact to the TLS handshake is typically microseconds.

  - **Complete integration** - Like how the calls to acquire the leaf
    certificate and CA roots are expected to be done out of band and reused, so
    should the [intention match
    API](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#list-matching-intentions). With all of the
    relevant intentions cached for the destination, all enforcement operations
    can be done entirely by the service without calling any Consul APIs in the
    connection or request path. If the service is networking layer 7 (e.g.
    HTTP) aware it can safely enforce intentions per _request_ instead of the
    coarser per _connection_ model.

## Update certificates and certificate roots

The leaf certificate and CA roots can be updated at any time and the
natively integrated application must react to this relatively quickly
so that new connections are not disrupted. This can be done through
Consul blocking queries (HTTP long polling) or through periodic polling.

The API calls for
[acquiring a service mesh TLS certificate](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#service-leaf-certificate)
and [reading service mesh CA roots](/consul/api-docs/agent/connect#certificate-authority-ca-roots)
both support
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking). By using blocking
queries, an application can efficiently wait for an updated value. For example,
the leaf certificate API will block until the certificate is near expiration
or the signing certificates have changed and will issue and return a new
certificate.

In some languages, using blocking queries may not be simple. In that case,
we still recommend using the blocking query parameters but with a very short
`timeout` value set. Doing this is documented with
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking). The low timeout will
ensure the API responds quickly. We recommend that applications poll the
certificate endpoints frequently, such as multiple times per minute.

The overhead for the blocking queries (long or periodic polling) is minimal.
The API calls are to the local agent and the local agent uses locally
cached data multiplexed over a single TCP connection to the Consul leader.
Even if a single machine has 1,000 mesh-enabled services all blocking
on certificate updates, this translates to only one TCP connection to the
Consul server.

Some language libraries such as the
[Go library](/consul/docs/connect/native/go) automatically handle updating
and locally caching the certificates.

## Service registration

Mesh-native applications must tell Consul that they support service mesh
natively. This enables the service to be returned as part of service
discovery for service mesh-capable services used by other mesh-native applications
and client [proxies](/consul/docs/connect/proxies).

You can enable native service mesh support directly in the [service definition](/consul/docs/services/configuration/services-configuration-reference#connect) by configuring the `connect` block. In the following example, the `redis` service is configured to support service mesh natively:

```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "redis",
    "port": 8000,
    "connect": {
      "native": true
    }
  }
}
```

Services that support service mesh natively are still returned through the standard
service discovery mechanisms in addition to the mesh-only service discovery
mechanisms.
