website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Configuration - Overview
description: >-
  Configure your Consul API Gateway to manage traffic into your service mesh. Learn about the Kubernetes Gateway Specification items you can configure and how to configure custom API Gateways.
---

# Consul API Gateway Configuration Overview

This topic provides an overview of the configuration items that enable Consul API Gateway to manage traffic into your Consul service mesh.

- [Gateway](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway) defines the main infrastructure resource that links API gateway components. It specifies the name of the `GatewayClass` and one or more [listeners](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#listeners), which specify the logical endpoints bound to the gateway's addresses.
- [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass) defines a class of gateway resources that you can use as a template for creating gateways.
- [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig) describes additional Consul API Gateway-related configuration parameters for the GatewayClass resource.
- [Routes](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/routes) specifies the path from the gateway to the backend service(s) client to the listener.

You can create a basic Gateway object using the default [`gatewayClassName`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#gatewayclassname) (`consul-api-gateway`). If you want to create custom Gateways suitable for your environment, complete the following steps:

1. Define a [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig) that contains your custom configurations.
1. Define a [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass) and configure the [`parametersRef.name`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass#parametersref-name) to reference the name of your [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig).
1. Define a [Gateway](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway) and configure the [`gatewayClassName`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#gatewayclassname) to reference the name of your [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass).

<!--TODO add diagram -->

Commit message:

Backport of api gw 1.16 updates into release/1.16.x (#18348)
api gw 1.16 updates (#18081)

* api gw 1.16 updates

* Apply suggestions from code review



* update CodeBlockConfig filename

* Apply suggestions from code review




* remove non-standard intentions page

* Update website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/index.mdx



---------

Co-authored-by: Eddie Rowe <74205376+eddie-rowe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jeff Boruszak <104028618+boruszak@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Configuration - Overview
description: >-
  Configure your Consul API Gateway to manage traffic into your service mesh. Learn about the Kubernetes Gateway Specification items you can configure and how to configure custom API Gateways.
---

# Consul API Gateway Configuration Overview

This topic provides an overview of the configuration items that enable Consul API Gateway to manage traffic into your Consul service mesh.

- [Gateway](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway) defines the main infrastructure resource that links API gateway components. It specifies the name of the `GatewayClass` and one or more [listeners](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#listeners), which specify the logical endpoints bound to the gateway's addresses.
- [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass) defines a class of gateway resources that you can use as a template for creating gateways.
- [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig) describes additional Consul API Gateway-related configuration parameters for the GatewayClass resource.
- [Routes](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/routes) specifies the path from the gateway to the backend service(s) client to the listener.
- [Intentions](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) specify traffic communication rules between services in the mesh. Intentions also enforce rules for service-to-service traffic routed through a Consul API gateway.

You can create a basic Gateway object using the default [`gatewayClassName`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#gatewayclassname) (`consul`). If you want to create custom Gateways suitable for your environment, complete the following steps:

1. Define a [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig) that contains your custom configurations.
1. Define a [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass) and configure the [`parametersRef.name`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass#parametersref-name) to reference the name of your [GatewayClassConfig](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig).
1. Define a [Gateway](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway) and configure the [`gatewayClassName`](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gateway#gatewayclassname) to reference the name of your [GatewayClass](/consul/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclass).

<!--TODO add diagram -->
