website/content/docs/connect/dataplane/consul-dataplane.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul Dataplane CLI Reference
description: >-
   Consul Dataplane runs as a separate binary controlled with the `consul-dataplane` CLI command. Learn how to use this command to configure your dataplane on Kubernetes with this reference guide and example code.
---

# Consul Dataplane CLI Reference

The `consul-dataplane` command interacts with the binary for [simplified service mesh with Consul Dataplane](/consul/docs/connect/dataplane). Use this command to install Consul Dataplane, configure its Envoy proxies, and secure Dataplane deployments.

## Usage

Usage: `consul-dataplane [options]`

### Requirements

Consul Dataplane requires servers running Consul version `v1.14+`. To find a specific version of Consul, refer to [Hashicorp's Official Release Channels](https://www.hashicorp.com/official-release-channels).

### Startup

The following options are required when starting `consul-dataplane` with the CLI:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

- `-addresses`
- `-service-node-name`
- `-proxy-service-id`

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

- `-addresses`
- `-service-node-name`
- `-service-namespace`
- `-service-partition`
- `-proxy-service-id`

</Tab>
</Tabs>


### Command Options

- `-addresses` - Consul server gRPC addresses. Can be a DNS name or an executable command. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_ADDRESSES`. Refer to [go-netaddrs](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-netaddrs#summary) for details and examples.
- `-ca-certs` - The path to a file or directory containing CA certificates used to verify the server's certificate. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CA_CERTS`.
- `-consul-dns-bind-addr` - The address bound to the Consul DNS proxy. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_DNS_BIND_ADDR`.
- `-consul-dns-bind-port` - The port that the Consul DNS proxy listens on. Default is `-1`, which disables the DNS proxy. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_DNS_BIND_PORT`.
- `-credential-type` - The type of credentials used to authenticate with Consul servers, either `"static"` or `"login"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_TYPE`.
- `-envoy-admin-bind-address` - The address the Envoy admin server is available on. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_ADMIN_BIND_ADDRESS`.
- `-envoy-admin-bind-port` - The port the Envoy admin server is available on. Default is `19000`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_ADMIN_BIND_PORT`.
- `-envoy-concurrency` - The number of worker threads that Envoy uses. Default is `2`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_CONCURRENCY`.
- `-envoy-ready-bind-address` - The address Envoy's readiness probe is available on. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_READY_BIND_ADDRESS`.
- `-envoy-ready-bind-port` - The port Envoy's readiness probe is available on. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_READY_BIND_PORT`.
- `-grpc-port` - The Consul server gRPC port to which `consul-dataplane` connects. Default is `8502`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_GRPC_PORT`.
- `-log-json` - Enables log messages in JSON format. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_LOG_JSON`.
- `-log-level` - Log level of the messages to print. Available log levels are `"trace"`, `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"warn"`, and `"error"`. Default is `"info"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_LOG_LEVEL`.
- `-login-auth-method` - The auth method used to log in. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_AUTH_METHOD`.
- `-login-bearer-token` - The bearer token presented to the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_BEARER_TOKEN`.
- `-login-bearer-token-path` - The path to a file containing the bearer token presented to the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_BEARER_TOKEN_PATH`.
- `-login-datacenter` - The datacenter containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_DATACENTER`.
- `-login-meta` - A set of key/value pairs to attach to the ACL token. Each pair is formatted as `<key>=<value>`. This flag may be passed multiple times. Accepted environment variables are `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_META{1..9}`.
- `-login-namespace` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise namespace containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_NAMESPACE`.
- `-login-partition` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise partition containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_PARTITION`.
- `-proxy-service-id` - The proxy service instance's ID. Accepted environment variable is `DP_PROXY_SERVICE_ID`.
- `-proxy-service-id-path` - The path to a file containing the proxy service instance's ID. Accepted environment variable is `DP_PROXY_SERVICE_ID_PATH`.
- `-server-watch-disabled` - Prevent `consul-dataplane` from consuming the server update stream. Use this flag when Consul servers are behind a load balancer. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVER_WATCH_DISABLED`.
- `-service-namespace` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise namespace in which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NAMESPACE`.
- `-service-node-id` - The ID of the Consul node to which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NODE_ID`.
- `-service-node-name` - The name of the Consul node to which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NODE_NAME`.
- `-service-partition` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise partition in which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_PARTITION`.
- `-static-token` - The ACL token used to authenticate requests to Consul servers when `-credential-type` is set to `"static"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_STATIC_TOKEN`.
- `-telemetry-prom-ca-certs-path` - The path to a file or directory containing CA certificates used to verify the Prometheus server's certificate. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_CA_CERTS_PATH`.
- `-telemetry-prom-cert-file` - The path to the client certificate used to serve Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_CERT_FILE`.
- `-telemetry-prom-key-file` - The path to the client private key used to serve Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_KEY_FILE`.
- `-telemetry-prom-merge-port` - The local port used to serve merged Prometheus metrics. Default is `20100`. If your service instance uses the same default port, this flag must be set to a different port in order to avoid a port conflict. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_MERGE_PORT`.
- `-telemetry-prom-retention-time` - The duration for Prometheus metrics aggregation. Default is `1m0s`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_RETENTION_TIME`. Refer to [`prometheus_retention_time`](/consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#telemetry-prometheus_retention_time) for details on setting this value.
- `-telemetry-prom-scrape-path` - The URL path where Envoy serves Prometheus metrics. Default is `"/metrics"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_SCRAPE_PATH`.
- `-telemetry-prom-service-metrics-url` - The URL where your service instance serves Prometheus metrics. If this is set, the metrics at this URL are included in Consul Dataplane's merged Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_SERVICE_METRICS_URL`.
- `-telemetry-use-central-config` - Controls whether the proxy applies the central telemetry configuration. Default is `true`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_USE_CENTRAL_CONFIG`.
- `-tls-cert` - The path to a client certificate file. This flag is required if `tls.grpc.verify_incoming` is enabled on the server. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_CERT`.
- `-tls-disabled` - Communicate with Consul servers over a plaintext connection. Useful for testing, but not recommended for production. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_DISABLED`.
- `-tls-insecure-skip-verify` - Do not verify the server's certificate. Useful for testing, but not recommended for production. Default is `false`. `DP_TLS_INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY`.
- `-tls-key` - The path to a client private key file. This flag is required if `tls.grpc.verify_incoming` is enabled on the server. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_KEY`.
- `-tls-server-name` - The hostname to expect in the server certificate's subject. This flag is required if `-addresses` is not a DNS name. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_SERVER_NAME`.
- `-version` - Print the current version of `consul-dataplane`.
- `-xds-bind-addr` - The address the Envoy xDS server is available on. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_XDS_BIND_ADDR`.
- `-xds-bind-port` - The port on which the Envoy xDS server is available. Default is `0`. When set to `0`, an available port is selected at random. Accepted environment variable is `DP_XDS_BIND_PORT`.

## Examples

### DNS

Consul Dataplane resolves a domain name to discover Consul server IP addresses.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -addresses my.consul.example.com
  ```

### Executable Command

Consul Dataplane runs a script that, on success, returns one or more IP addresses separated by whitespace.

  ```shell-session
  $ ./my-script.sh
  172.20.0.1
  172.20.0.2
  172.20.0.3

  $ consul-dataplane -addresses "exec=./my-script.sh"
  ```

### Go Discover Nodes for Cloud Providers

The [`go-discover`](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-discover) binary is included in the `hashicorp/consul-dataplane` image for use with this mode of server discovery, which functions in
  a way similar to [Cloud Auto-join](/consul/docs/install/cloud-auto-join). The
  following example demonstrates how to use the `go-discover` binary with Consul Dataplane.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -addresses "exec=discover -q addrs provider=aws region=us-west-2 tag_key=consul-server tag_value=true"
  ```

### Static token

A static ACL token is passed to Consul Dataplane.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "static"` -static-token "12345678-90ab-cdef-0000-12345678abcd"
  ```

### Auth method login

Consul Dataplane logs in to one of Consul's supported [auth methods](/consul/docs/security/acl/auth-methods).

  <Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Consul OSS">

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "login"
    -login-auth-method <method> \
    -login-bearer-token <token> \  ## Or -login-bearer-token-path
    -login-datacenter <datacenter> \
    -login-meta key1=val1 -login-meta key2=val2 \
  ```

  </Tab>

  <Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "login"
    -login-auth-method <method> \
    -login-bearer-token <token> \  ## Or -login-bearer-token-path
    -login-datacenter <datacenter> \
    -login-meta key1=val1 -login-meta key2=val2 \
    -login-namespace <namespace> \
    -login-partition <partition>
  ```

  </Tab>
  </Tabs>

### Consul Servers Behind a Load Balancer

When Consul servers are behind a load balancer, you must pass `-server-watch-disabled` to Consul
Dataplane.

```shell-session
$ consul-dataplane -server-watch-disabled
```

By default, Consul Dataplane opens a server watch stream to a Consul server, which enables the server
to inform Consul Dataplane of new or different Consul server addresses. However, if Consul Dataplane
is connecting through a load balancer, then it must ignore the Consul server addresses that are
returned from the server watch stream.

Commit message:

Docs: Update proxy lifecycle annotations and consul-dataplane flags (#18075)
* Update proxy lifecycle annotations and consul-dataplane flags

website/content/docs/connect/dataplane/consul-dataplane.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul Dataplane CLI Reference
description: >-
   Consul Dataplane runs as a separate binary controlled with the `consul-dataplane` CLI command. Learn how to use this command to configure your dataplane on Kubernetes with this reference guide and example code.
---

# Consul Dataplane CLI Reference

The `consul-dataplane` command interacts with the binary for [simplified service mesh with Consul Dataplane](/consul/docs/connect/dataplane). Use this command to install Consul Dataplane, configure its Envoy proxies, and secure Dataplane deployments.

## Usage

Usage: `consul-dataplane [options]`

### Requirements

Consul Dataplane requires servers running Consul version `v1.14+`. To find a specific version of Consul, refer to [Hashicorp's Official Release Channels](https://www.hashicorp.com/official-release-channels).

### Startup

The following options are required when starting `consul-dataplane` with the CLI:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

- `-addresses`
- `-service-node-name`
- `-proxy-service-id`

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

- `-addresses`
- `-service-node-name`
- `-service-namespace`
- `-service-partition`
- `-proxy-service-id`

</Tab>
</Tabs>


### Command Options

- `-addresses` - Consul server gRPC addresses. Can be a DNS name or an executable command. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_ADDRESSES`. Refer to [go-netaddrs](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-netaddrs#summary) for details and examples.
- `-ca-certs` - The path to a file or directory containing CA certificates used to verify the server's certificate. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CA_CERTS`.
- `-consul-dns-bind-addr` - The address bound to the Consul DNS proxy. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_DNS_BIND_ADDR`.
- `-consul-dns-bind-port` - The port that the Consul DNS proxy listens on. Default is `-1`, which disables the DNS proxy. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_DNS_BIND_PORT`.
- `-credential-type` - The type of credentials used to authenticate with Consul servers, either `"static"` or `"login"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_TYPE`.
- `-envoy-admin-bind-address` - The address the Envoy admin server is available on. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_ADMIN_BIND_ADDRESS`.
- `-envoy-admin-bind-port` - The port the Envoy admin server is available on. Default is `19000`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_ADMIN_BIND_PORT`.
- `-envoy-concurrency` - The number of worker threads that Envoy uses. Default is `2`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_CONCURRENCY`.
- `-envoy-ready-bind-address` - The address Envoy's readiness probe is available on. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_READY_BIND_ADDRESS`.
- `-envoy-ready-bind-port` - The port Envoy's readiness probe is available on. Accepted environment variable is `DP_ENVOY_READY_BIND_PORT`.
- `-graceful-port` - The port to serve HTTP endpoints for graceful operations. Accepted environment variable is `DP_GRACEFUL_PORT`.
- `-graceful-shutdown-path` - The HTTP path to serve the graceful shutdown endpoint. Accepted environment variable is `DP_GRACEFUL_SHUTDOWN_PATH`.
- `-grpc-port` - The Consul server gRPC port to which `consul-dataplane` connects. Default is `8502`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CONSUL_GRPC_PORT`.
- `-log-json` - Enables log messages in JSON format. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_LOG_JSON`.
- `-log-level` - Log level of the messages to print. Available log levels are `"trace"`, `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"warn"`, and `"error"`. Default is `"info"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_LOG_LEVEL`.
- `-login-auth-method` - The auth method used to log in. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_AUTH_METHOD`.
- `-login-bearer-token` - The bearer token presented to the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_BEARER_TOKEN`.
- `-login-bearer-token-path` - The path to a file containing the bearer token presented to the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_BEARER_TOKEN_PATH`.
- `-login-datacenter` - The datacenter containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_DATACENTER`.
- `-login-meta` - A set of key/value pairs to attach to the ACL token. Each pair is formatted as `<key>=<value>`. This flag may be passed multiple times. Accepted environment variables are `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_META{1..9}`.
- `-login-namespace` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise namespace containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_NAMESPACE`.
- `-login-partition` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise partition containing the auth method. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_LOGIN_PARTITION`.
- `-proxy-service-id` - The proxy service instance's ID. Accepted environment variable is `DP_PROXY_SERVICE_ID`.
- `-proxy-service-id-path` - The path to a file containing the proxy service instance's ID. Accepted environment variable is `DP_PROXY_SERVICE_ID_PATH`.
- `-server-watch-disabled` - Prevent `consul-dataplane` from consuming the server update stream. Use this flag when Consul servers are behind a load balancer. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVER_WATCH_DISABLED`.
- `-service-namespace` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise namespace in which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NAMESPACE`.
- `-service-node-id` - The ID of the Consul node to which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NODE_ID`.
- `-service-node-name` - The name of the Consul node to which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_NODE_NAME`.
- `-service-partition` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The Consul Enterprise partition in which the proxy service instance is registered. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SERVICE_PARTITION`.
- `-shutdown-drain-listeners` - Wait for proxy listeners to drain before terminating the proxy container. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SHUTDOWN_DRAIN_LISTENERS`.
- `-shutdown-grace-period-seconds` - Amount of time to wait after receiving a SIGTERM signal before terminating the proxy. Accepted environment variable is `DP_SHUTDOWN_GRACE_PERIOD_SECONDS`.
- `-static-token` - The ACL token used to authenticate requests to Consul servers when `-credential-type` is set to `"static"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_CREDENTIAL_STATIC_TOKEN`.
- `-telemetry-prom-ca-certs-path` - The path to a file or directory containing CA certificates used to verify the Prometheus server's certificate. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_CA_CERTS_PATH`.
- `-telemetry-prom-cert-file` - The path to the client certificate used to serve Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_CERT_FILE`.
- `-telemetry-prom-key-file` - The path to the client private key used to serve Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_KEY_FILE`.
- `-telemetry-prom-merge-port` - The local port used to serve merged Prometheus metrics. Default is `20100`. If your service instance uses the same default port, this flag must be set to a different port in order to avoid a port conflict. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_MERGE_PORT`.
- `-telemetry-prom-retention-time` - The duration for Prometheus metrics aggregation. Default is `1m0s`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_RETENTION_TIME`. Refer to [`prometheus_retention_time`](/consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#telemetry-prometheus_retention_time) for details on setting this value.
- `-telemetry-prom-scrape-path` - The URL path where Envoy serves Prometheus metrics. Default is `"/metrics"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_SCRAPE_PATH`.
- `-telemetry-prom-service-metrics-url` - The URL where your service instance serves Prometheus metrics. If this is set, the metrics at this URL are included in Consul Dataplane's merged Prometheus metrics. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_PROM_SERVICE_METRICS_URL`.
- `-telemetry-use-central-config` - Controls whether the proxy applies the central telemetry configuration. Default is `true`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TELEMETRY_USE_CENTRAL_CONFIG`.
- `-tls-cert` - The path to a client certificate file. This flag is required if `tls.grpc.verify_incoming` is enabled on the server. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_CERT`.
- `-tls-disabled` - Communicate with Consul servers over a plaintext connection. Useful for testing, but not recommended for production. Default is `false`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_DISABLED`.
- `-tls-insecure-skip-verify` - Do not verify the server's certificate. Useful for testing, but not recommended for production. Default is `false`. `DP_TLS_INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY`.
- `-tls-key` - The path to a client private key file. This flag is required if `tls.grpc.verify_incoming` is enabled on the server. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_KEY`.
- `-tls-server-name` - The hostname to expect in the server certificate's subject. This flag is required if `-addresses` is not a DNS name. Accepted environment variable is `DP_TLS_SERVER_NAME`.
- `-version` - Print the current version of `consul-dataplane`.
- `-xds-bind-addr` - The address the Envoy xDS server is available on. Default is `"127.0.0.1"`. Accepted environment variable is `DP_XDS_BIND_ADDR`.
- `-xds-bind-port` - The port on which the Envoy xDS server is available. Default is `0`. When set to `0`, an available port is selected at random. Accepted environment variable is `DP_XDS_BIND_PORT`.

## Examples

### DNS

Consul Dataplane resolves a domain name to discover Consul server IP addresses.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -addresses my.consul.example.com
  ```

### Executable Command

Consul Dataplane runs a script that, on success, returns one or more IP addresses separated by whitespace.

  ```shell-session
  $ ./my-script.sh
  172.20.0.1
  172.20.0.2
  172.20.0.3

  $ consul-dataplane -addresses "exec=./my-script.sh"
  ```

### Go Discover Nodes for Cloud Providers

The [`go-discover`](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-discover) binary is included in the `hashicorp/consul-dataplane` image for use with this mode of server discovery, which functions in
  a way similar to [Cloud Auto-join](/consul/docs/install/cloud-auto-join). The
  following example demonstrates how to use the `go-discover` binary with Consul Dataplane.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -addresses "exec=discover -q addrs provider=aws region=us-west-2 tag_key=consul-server tag_value=true"
  ```

### Static token

A static ACL token is passed to Consul Dataplane.

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "static"` -static-token "12345678-90ab-cdef-0000-12345678abcd"
  ```

### Auth method login

Consul Dataplane logs in to one of Consul's supported [auth methods](/consul/docs/security/acl/auth-methods).

  <Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Consul OSS">

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "login"
    -login-auth-method <method> \
    -login-bearer-token <token> \  ## Or -login-bearer-token-path
    -login-datacenter <datacenter> \
    -login-meta key1=val1 -login-meta key2=val2 \
  ```

  </Tab>

  <Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

  ```shell-session
  $ consul-dataplane -credential-type "login"
    -login-auth-method <method> \
    -login-bearer-token <token> \  ## Or -login-bearer-token-path
    -login-datacenter <datacenter> \
    -login-meta key1=val1 -login-meta key2=val2 \
    -login-namespace <namespace> \
    -login-partition <partition>
  ```

  </Tab>
  </Tabs>

### Consul Servers Behind a Load Balancer

When Consul servers are behind a load balancer, you must pass `-server-watch-disabled` to Consul
Dataplane.

```shell-session
$ consul-dataplane -server-watch-disabled
```

By default, Consul Dataplane opens a server watch stream to a Consul server, which enables the server
to inform Consul Dataplane of new or different Consul server addresses. However, if Consul Dataplane
is connecting through a load balancer, then it must ignore the Consul server addresses that are
returned from the server watch stream.
