website/content/commands/members.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Members'
description: >-
  The `members` command outputs the current list of members that a Consul agent
  knows about, along with their state. The state of a node can only be alive,
  left, or failed.
---

# Consul Members

Command: `consul members`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/agent/members](/consul/api-docs/agent#list-members)

The `members` command outputs the current list of members that a Consul
agent knows about, along with their state. The state of a node can only
be "alive", "left", or "failed".

Nodes in the "failed" state are still listed because Consul attempts to
reconnect with failed nodes for a certain amount of time in the case
that the failure is actually just a network partition.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `node:read`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul members [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-detailed` - If provided, output shows more detailed information
  about each node.

- `-segment` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The segment to show members in. If not provided, members
  in all segments visible to the agent will be listed.

- `-status` - If provided, output is filtered to only nodes matching
  the regular expression for status

- `-wan` - For agents in Server mode, this will return the list of nodes
  in the WAN gossip pool. These are generally all the server nodes in
  each datacenter.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

Commit message:

member cli: add -filter expression to flags (#18223)
* member cli: add -filter expression to flags

* changelog

* update doc

* Add test cases

* use quote

website/content/commands/members.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Members'
description: >-
  The `members` command outputs the current list of members that a Consul agent
  knows about, along with their state. The state of a node can only be alive,
  left, or failed.
---

# Consul Members

Command: `consul members`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/agent/members](/consul/api-docs/agent#list-members)

The `members` command outputs the current list of members that a Consul
agent knows about, along with their state. The state of a node can only
be "alive", "left", or "failed".

Nodes in the "failed" state are still listed because Consul attempts to
reconnect with failed nodes for a certain amount of time in the case
that the failure is actually just a network partition.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `node:read`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul members [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-detailed` - If provided, output shows more detailed information
  about each node.

- `-segment` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - The segment to show members in. If not provided, members
  in all segments visible to the agent will be listed.

- `-status` - If provided, output is filtered to only nodes matching
  the regular expression for status

- `-wan` - For agents in Server mode, this will return the list of nodes
  in the WAN gossip pool. These are generally all the server nodes in
  each datacenter.

- `-filter=<filter>` - Expression to use for filtering the results,
  e.g., `-filter='Tags["dc"] == dc2'`.
  See the [`/catalog/nodes` API documentation](/consul/api-docs/catalog#filtering) for a
  description of what is filterable.


#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'
