website/content/commands/watch.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Watch'
description: >-
  The `watch` command provides a mechanism to watch for changes in a particular
  data view (list of nodes, service members, key value, etc) and to invoke a
  process with the latest values of the view. If no process is specified, the
  current values are dumped to stdout which can be a useful way to inspect data
  in Consul.
---

# Consul Watch

Command: `consul watch`

The `watch` command provides a mechanism to watch for changes in a particular
data view (list of nodes, service members, key value, etc) and to invoke
a process with the latest values of the view. If no process is specified,
the current values are dumped to STDOUT which can be a useful way to inspect
data in Consul.

There is more [documentation on watches here](/consul/docs/dynamic-app-config/watches).

## Usage

Usage: `consul watch [options] [child...]`

The only required option is `-type` which specifies the particular
data view. Depending on the type, various options may be required
or optionally provided. There is more documentation on watch
[specifications here](/consul/docs/dynamic-app-config/watches).

#### Command Options

- `-key` - Key to watch. Only for `key` type.

- `-name`- Event name to watch. Only for `event` type.

- `-passingonly=[true|false]` - Should only passing entries be returned. Defaults to
  `false` and only applies for `service` type.

- `-prefix` - Key prefix to watch. Only for `keyprefix` type.

- `-service` - Service to watch. Required for `service` type, optional for `checks` type.

- `-shell` - Optional, use a shell to run the command (can set a custom shell via the
  SHELL environment variable). The default value is true.

- `-state` - Check state to filter on. Optional for `checks` type.

- `-tag` - Service tag to filter on. Optional for `service` type.

- `-type` - Watch type. Required, one of "`key`, `keyprefix`, `services`,
  `nodes`, `service`, `checks`, or `event`.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

Commit message:

watch: support -filter for consul watch: checks, services, nodes, service (#17780)
* watch: support -filter for watch checks

* Add filter for watch nodes, services, and service
- unit test added
- Add changelog
- update doc

website/content/commands/watch.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Watch'
description: >-
  The `watch` command provides a mechanism to watch for changes in a particular
  data view (list of nodes, service members, key value, etc) and to invoke a
  process with the latest values of the view. If no process is specified, the
  current values are dumped to stdout which can be a useful way to inspect data
  in Consul.
---

# Consul Watch

Command: `consul watch`

The `watch` command provides a mechanism to watch for changes in a particular
data view (list of nodes, service members, key value, etc) and to invoke
a process with the latest values of the view. If no process is specified,
the current values are dumped to STDOUT which can be a useful way to inspect
data in Consul.

There is more [documentation on watches here](/consul/docs/dynamic-app-config/watches).

## Usage

Usage: `consul watch [options] [child...]`

The only required option is `-type` which specifies the particular
data view. Depending on the type, various options may be required
or optionally provided. There is more documentation on watch
[specifications here](/consul/docs/dynamic-app-config/watches).

#### Command Options

- `-key` - Key to watch. Only for `key` type.

- `-name`- Event name to watch. Only for `event` type.

- `-passingonly=[true|false]` - Should only passing entries be returned. Defaults to
  `false` and only applies for `service` type.

- `-prefix` - Key prefix to watch. Only for `keyprefix` type.

- `-service` - Service to watch. Required for `service` type, optional for `checks` type.

- `-shell` - Optional, use a shell to run the command (can set a custom shell via the
  SHELL environment variable). The default value is true.

- `-state` - Check state to filter on. Optional for `checks` type.

- `-tag` - Service tag to filter on. Optional for `service` type.

- `-type` - Watch type. Required, one of "`key`, `keyprefix`, `services`,
  `nodes`, `service`, `checks`, or `event`.

- `-filter=<filter>` - Expression to use for filtering the results. Optional for
  `checks` `nodes`, `services`, and `service` type.
  See the [`/catalog/nodes` API documentation](/consul/api-docs/catalog#filtering) for a
  description of what is filterable.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'
