website/content/commands/services/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Services'
description: |
  The `consul services` command interacts with services registered with the local agent. It exposes top-level commands for registering and deregistering services with the Consul catalog.
---

# Consul Agent Services

Command: `consul services`

The `services` command has subcommands for interacting with Consul services
registered with the [local agent](/consul/docs/agent). These provide
useful commands such as `register` and `deregister` for easily registering
services in scripts, dev mode, etc.
To view all services in the catalog, instead of only agent-local services,
see the [`catalog services`](/consul/commands/catalog/services) command.

## Usage

Usage: `consul services <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul services -h` to
view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul services <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    deregister    Deregister services with the local agent
    register      Register services with the local agent
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

To create a simple service:

```shell-session
$ consul services register -name=web
```

To create a service from a configuration file:

```shell-session
$ cat web.json
{
  "Service": {
    "Name": "web"
  }
}

$ consul services register web.json
```

To deregister a service:

```
# Either style works:
$ consul services deregister web.json

$ consul services deregister -id web
```

Commit message:

Backport of NET-4952 Add docs for export command into release/1.16.x (#18449)
* backport of commit d6d0450665659f172360d4daebc3103777e6c8a9

* backport of commit 39feb999f1dd5327ff2d3c9f425a58f4d6ec51bb

* backport of commit 8b1398a9b1b80bc2491f55f4fcc4ed028c2f6590

* backport of commit 47b9c12a044f37649c906a9b6acf85d6e3055f56

* backport of commit db8d974cf156e4374307ac4a990373ec2bfd0d8d

* backport of commit f64e808d5bac95257e1162475ee2bcf9c855060c

* backport of commit 6b6dbb4f74fc49171b830c84138d2efd14656d52

* backport of commit 2e34721547ddc39162456e182fac7b611197a4f5

* backport of commit 2d52b0ca24bcfbbf747b8f1b6693660b03cbd3a9

---------

Co-authored-by: Nathan Coleman <nathan.coleman@hashicorp.com>

website/content/commands/services/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Services'
description: |
  The `consul services` command interacts with services registered with the local agent. It exposes top-level commands for registering and deregistering services with the Consul catalog.
---

# Consul Agent Services

Command: `consul services`

The `services` command has subcommands for interacting with Consul services
registered with the [local agent](/consul/docs/agent). These provide
useful commands such as `register` and `deregister` for easily registering
services in scripts, dev mode, etc.
To view all services in the catalog, instead of only agent-local services,
see the [`catalog services`](/consul/commands/catalog/services) command.

## Usage

Usage: `consul services <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul services -h` to
view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul services <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    deregister    Deregister services with the local agent
    register      Register services with the local agent
    export        Export services from one cluster peer or admin partition to another
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

To create a simple service:

```shell-session
$ consul services register -name=web
```

To create a service from a configuration file:

```shell-session
$ cat web.json
{
  "Service": {
    "Name": "web"
  }
}

$ consul services register web.json
```

To deregister a service:

```
# Either style works:
$ consul services deregister web.json

$ consul services deregister -id web
```
